.TH ADFLS 1 "Sep 2025"
.SH NAME
adfls \- list contents of an ADF volume.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adfls
.RB [ -b ]
.RB [ -l ]
.RB [ -h ]
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -p ] \fIvol\fP
.I <\fIadf_device\fR>
.RB [ \fIFILE...\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBadfls\fR is a filesystem utility allowing to list contents of ADF volumes,
optionally showing some more detailed properties like size or permissions.
It shows either the main directory of the volume or, if specified, the
contents of another directory or just the specified file (or a link).
.PP
When called with the \fB-l\fR option, it shows the following properties (in
that order): access permissions, size (by default in bytes, in blocks if
ordered so with \fB-b\fR), date and time, type, name and (for
soft-links) name of the real entry (which can be a file or
a directory).

The type can be: F (file), D (directory), LF (hard-link
to a file), LD (hard-link to a directory), LS (soft-link).
.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of the options.
.TP
.B \-b
Show sizes in blocks.

Note that sizes in blocks include all blocks used, so
in case of files those are: file header block, data blocks and (if also used)
file extension blocks. So the total size in blocks, if expressed in bytes
(meaning: the block size multiplied by the block size, always 512), is always
larger than the size of the data stored in the file (listed without the -b
option).
.TP
.B \-l
Use a long listing format.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help.
.TP
.B \-p \fIvol\fP
Specify volume/partition number (counting from 0), default: 0
.TP
.B \-v
Be more verbose.
.TP
.B \-V
Show version.

.SH EXAMPLES
\fBadfls mydisk.adf\fR
.RS
Show list of entries in the main directory on the volume 0 of mydisk.adf
.RE

\fBadfls -lb -p 1 mydisk.adf devs libs\fR
.RS
Show contents of the directories devs and libs on volume 1 of mydisk.adf
using the long format and display sizes in blocks.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adfinfo (1), unadf (1), adflib (3)
.SH NOTES
Detailed info about Commodore Amiga filesystems:
http://lclevy.free.fr/adflib/adf_info.html
.SH AUTHOR
\fBadfls\fR was written by \fBTomasz Wolak\fR <tomas.wolak@gmail.com>,
as a part of the ADFlib (https://github.com/adflib/ADFlib).
.PP
